# credit-risk-classification
Dataframe labels for training and testing datasets created. Then the y variable series for loan status excluded per requirements and confirmed with data counts. 
Data successfully split in training and testing datasets ready to be tested with both models. 
Regression model saved the predictions with the Accuracy score of 95% and classification report created. As per the models predictions, healthy loans were predicted to be 15001 and high risk loans predicted to 507.
Then the random sampler was used to resample the data. The resampled dataset confirmed with distinct values as required. The logistic regression model on resampled data for new predictions set using testing and training data.
The balanced accuracy score was 4% higher this time and was 99% with the supporting loan numbers health appearing as same like before.
Credit Risk Analysis: The whole purpose of the analysis from the lending data was to predict the weighted risk average on various number of loans with different datasets and contributing variables affecting these loans in the report. The accuracy precision of both models were above 90% which was indicating the precision and recall of the machine learning in good turn around time with accurate data.
I would recommend the Logistic Regression model although showing same number of predictions but a better accuracy percentage which can be considered as near perfection for any model with the provided dataset. Also as per my analysis by using the models with better accuracy the risk of loss regarding making any decisions for allowing any credit finance facility to customers with high risk and low risk can be easily categorized by these models. By further enhancing the model in logistic regression it can also identify several other anomolies based on the indicators provided in the dataset to prevent the credit loss based on the predictions. 
